From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer I'm technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 55 recorded live
Thursday, February 24th, 2011. Support for Hanselman
it's provided by Tellerik rad
controls, the most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com.
In this episode, Scott talks
with rune Sorenson from app
Harbor about the state of
the cloud. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman, and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
And today we're talking with
ruins Sorenson from app Harbor.
I want to talk about
these clouds and the mini
clouds that are out there,
particularly ones that are what
I like to call opinionated
clouds and ruin works for
for app Harbor. How are
you, sir? I'm fine. Thank
you, Scott. So you're running
a cloud effectively, right? Yeah,
we are. We are running
up hopper, which is basically
a platform, a service allowing
developers to push their code
up to us and yeah,
they probably the applications in
no time. What is the
difference between in your mind
between a holster where I
can just go up and
find an ISP and a
host and pay $5 a
month and I've got a
effectively, a machine somewhere, I
suppose it could be in
the cloud and something like
Amazon or Azure or, or
app Harbor. Well, basically I
think, I think did the
scalability part is a big
part of it. So you
actually, you know, assure us
assuring that popper you should
too, is more used to
what scaling. And there's a
whole whole experience pod, especially
for tools like app hopper
and to some extent sure.
Where we provide an additional
layer of convenience to people
wanting to, to deploy applications.
So it's the, it's the
elasticity, the idea that I'm
gonna make my little application
available. And if I become
the next Twitter, my holster
will, will expand. Yeah, you'll
be ready for that. W
when they say that, do
they mean literally that it
will just work? It'll just
expand that I could sleep.
I could sleep well at
night and wake up in
the next morning and find
out that I got on
slash dot and a million
hits and I didn't have
to do anything. Or does,
does that kind of scale
and elasticity happens slowly over
a period of weeks or
months. It, it really Depends
on kind of service, you
know, with the UC too,
for instance, you actually have
to purchase additional instances and
make sure your, your platform
can actually, it basically just
has the capability of scaling
it, but you have to
do something for it, for
yourself and set up the
whole system S for assure
you, you actually have to
do a lot of work
in order to scale up
all down. Whereas I guess,
I guess what retrying with
Papa is to make this
a as ECS for people
as possible just to basically
going in and using space
and adding a couple of
positional education. Where do you
think that hosts fit in
this kind of this new
world? I mean, you're saying
platform as a service, you're
saying cloud, but you're not
saying that you're a host.
What about all those hosts
out of those $5 hosts
that GoDaddy's and things like
that, as well as the
expensive hosts where they'll give
you your own virtual machine,
a single virtual machine at
their, at their hosting provider,
where do they go in
this new new world order?
Yeah, well, honestly, I don't
really know it's I think
if, if they can keep
up with the pace and
the basically provide some of
the same kind of experience
to people is they'll be
good. But if, if they,
if they keep on just
offering a $5 hosting plan
with upload, I don't see
much room for them in
this world, if it's because
we're, we're going a lot
towards service and providing people
with exactly the tools and
the services they need. And
I don't, I don't really
think as that host a
host, like GoDaddy provides that
Do what, what is, what
is Heroku and what did
they, what did they do?
What did they introduce to
the development environment, to the
community that got people so
excited that, that others would
emulate them? Yeah, well officially
hope Heroku is still on
that simple deployment mechanism where,
where you push your code
to a Roku with get,
and it was no code
modifications. And, and I wrote
Justin magically deploys your application.
So it's also an open
platform where multiple services are
readily available, available. And you
can just add those, like
within space or using the
Heroku console, which is, I
guess, basically the convenience and
seeing that, that you can
hit your app up and
running within 30 seconds, getting
people really excited, and the
fact that you can go
in and you can see,
all right, if I wanted
to, I could, I could
go up to 20 dinos.
I can, I can save
up to 20. It's an
associate for one, if I
want more redundancy, if I
want more, or I could
go with a server that
will allow me to my
customers. I think primarily the,
the use of fuse and
the open platform, the fact
that you don't have to
change anything to deploys with
the class. It seems to
me like the difference really
is that on a classic
host, you're, you're doing the
build locally. You're doing the
tests locally and you're pushing
the binaries and configuring effectively
a system, but not necessarily
a system that knows about
applications and in a regular
ISP, there's a computer out
there somewhere, but it doesn't
necessarily know I'm going to
deploy an app and I
have to deploy the binary.
But in these, these new
models, I'm deploying the source,
they're doing the bill, they're
running the tests and they
are not thinking about themselves.
Those end points. They're not
thinking about themselves as a,
as a computer. They are
literally an application server. They're,
they're opinionated. They're assuming that
there's, I am here to
receive an app and I
know how your workflow should
be. So then they're kind
of imposing the same convention
over configuration that you see
and, you know, in rails
apps and now an asp.net
MVC applications. So, I mean,
opinionated hosts is kind of
what this feels like to
me. Yeah, it's definitely like,
so basically a popper is
also a convention or configuration.
We make a lot of
assumptions about when we receive
it, because we also build
it and run people. And
basically to make that happen,
you have to tell people
alive, you have to, in
your repository, you only have
a single solution file if
you want to configure it
somehow. So you get the
ability to have multiple solution
files. Well, then you ship
all one of them at
hopper, and this will be
the one we use to
build. And the basic thing
works by a lot in
a single solution file. I
can only have one web
project, but we know which
ones to build, which ones
to publish to our service.
And basically, I think this
is a, I think this
is a logical setup in
a lot of ways. Why
would you want to line
up occasion with multiple websites
or you might have a
good reason to, but it's
really the common case. We're
very application centric as to
a server capacities. And I
thought it was interesting that
even though you're doing, you're
a.net platform as a service,
that you are opinionated enough
that you decided to get
the source control system was
how you were going to
do things you didn't use
mercurial, which tends to be
considered more friendly on windows
platforms or TFS. What was
it about get that was
so compelling that you felt
that it was important to
pick an, a base your
entire platform on it as
a service on, on it
as a source control system?
Oh, well basically for us
get the stuff to stop.
It was a natural thought
for us because we, we
all love it. I appreciate
that. Well, that's the most
important thing for us is
that pusher cook with some
kind of, obviously we want
to make it as convenient
as possible. So we will
ask your support very soon,
actually finish it, putting the
final touches on it. So,
so this is not a,
this is not a Holy
war for forget. It's more
a, it's more just our
preference. And naturally I see,
I see. So it's just,
just the proof of concept,
but the platform itself isn't
dependent on it in some
way. No. And then basically
I think what's also important
to know is that when
we're building a popper or
in the initial phase of
it, we mainly seek to
solve our own problems in
deploying. This was really how
the platform has matured over
time. And honestly, we haven't
used material for this thing.
So it wasn't really a
problem. Obviously now, as we're
seeing a lot of users
wanting material, we want to
implement it and it's our
most requested feature. And we're
really looking forward to providing
it to our users. It
would be interesting if I
could commit to code Plex,
then log into app Harbor
and have you grab from
the trunk automatically. Yeah, actually
we thought about this at
all based approach where you
specify a, some, some retro
somewhere and say a lot
of on a pull from
there I'm deployed right now,
this branch or whatever. Actually,
we, we fought a lot
about that approach and I
think we will in summit
that sometimes also, because it
will actually make it easier
for us many more ways,
ways of getting code in,
because my malware actually doing
an off work in order
for get to work and
to receive people's code. If
we could just pull in
from multiple places, what I
shouldn't make our job easier,
What is underneath it? I
mean, sometimes when companies with
really kind of cool and
minimalist websites come out with
a cool story, we have
no idea what's behind it.
I mean, are you two
guys in a garage or
is this all built on
Amazon anyway? And you're hiding
Amazon from us or what
what's, where is this cloud?
Yeah, actually right now we're
free people in an apartment
office, but we're, we're building
this on Amazon issue too.
And yeah, using that sr
or database stuff like that,
we were entirely built. And
that being said, our, our
design is actually made so
that future could provide people
with hosting on for instance
this year and just, and
just handle the bills on
our own backend. Okay. See
that, that suddenly my mind,
my mind just kind of
opened. I just, I just
bloomed here thinking that, cause
right now, when you go
to app harbor.com, you see
this as you are done,
right. It's a very provocative
statement. I think that's gotten
people excited about app Harbor
because if it comes out
and it says something's wrong
and we fixed it. Yeah.
Well basically you might say
that there are certain kinks
or things that like two,
three minutes to an hour,
basically we want to encourage
developers to deploy this. Shouldn't
be a problem at all.
And the distance for instance,
get or material because you
just commit you committed to
Moscow. Right. Basically what you're,
what I'm hearing you say
is that the cloud offering
for a lot of systems
is not friendly to continuous
deployment. Exactly, exactly. And it's
not friends because it takes
too long time inconvenience in
a lot of ways. When
we, I also think an
important thing about continuous deployment
or continuous integration, that's where
essentially providing them to make
developers create better applications because
will be more durable, they'll
work any place. Actually, we
haven't done anything special. So
our build service, obviously we're
providing some basic library of
like that code, but then
again, people really have to
include whatever references the need
and make a concise app.
That's not referencing local assemblies
or anything. So it basically
makes the applications more portable.
It's just that we're not
trying to lock in users
for instance, by making them
create them as your project,
something like that, which basically
locks them in to the
platform. We're very much about
creating an open platform where
people also can choose services.
For instance, people can choose.
They won't even be dependent
on windows capacity if they
want to move their apps
somewhere else. Hi, this is
Scott coming to you from
another place in time. Are
you using agile practices to
manage your software development? There's
lots of tools in the
market that manage the steps
of a project, but most
of them focus on individual
roles. Get ready for a
solution that caters for the
success of the whole team.
Guys at Tellerik introduced team
pulse to an agile project
management tool. That'll help you
gather ideas, estimate plan, track
progress in a common workspace.
Finally companies, regardless of their
size can use a lightweight
and convenient tool that makes
all the stakeholders work as
a United team. Even if
they're in different countries by
combining intuitive user interface and
the power server light team
poles removes the roadblocks that
you typically face and applying
agile in an effective manner,
no more lost data, no
disparate systems, no lack of
critical analytics regarding the health
philosophy project. See if yourself
get a free copy for
five users in one project
tellerik.com/team pulse. And please do
thank tolerance for supporting Hansel
minutes on their Facebook fan
page, facebook.com/t L E R
I K Keller. We do
appreciate it. They wouldn't be
a handsome minutes if there
wasn't, Tellerik helping us. Yeah.
The, the idea also that
in my mind, somehow I
hit assumed that there was
some app Harbor mini cloud
out there in the world,
but, and I thought that
you were tying yourself to
either the mini cloud or
AC too, and you were
tying yourself to get, but
now I'm realizing that you've
built that, that deployment middleware
that enables continuous integration and
continuous deployment near continuous and
the get part is a
implementation detail. And the ECQ
part is an implementation detail.
So you could, you know,
at some, at some future
point, we could see a
TFS based deployment on app
Harbor on Azure or an
mercurial one on ECE two
or, or whatever is that
how I understand your architecture?
Exactly. Our architecture basically get
far off. It's just a,
it's just a control. And
I embassy yet. That's really
how it is. We were
using some, a good library
locally just to handle this.
But, but basically, yeah, we
could add on another controller
for instance. So this is
one part of the story.
And as you said, that
deployment pod is basically filled
up from pieces can be
a mixed. Yeah. For instance,
this apartment mechanism could be
anywhere in the world, also
on your own server, if
you want it at some
point. And let me ask
you this though, you've, you've
created it. You've created a
company based on the opportunity
that there are some speed
issues with Azure as it
is what happens in four
or five years. When, you
know, as your moves towards
a speedier Heroku style deployment,
where do you, where is
that Harbor at that point?
Yeah. Well, hopefully we'll all
with Microsoft, but I don't
know, four or five years
is a long time. I
guess if were to move.
I wouldn't worry a lot
at all because that would
be extremely slow. I think
we're a quite serious player
in this market already, and
we'll continue to improve basically
how I see y'all future.
This company continue to deliver
excellent service. So you I'm
hearing you say that there's
more than enough room for
another planet. Definitely do the
cloud is your stay. And
it's going to be bigger
and break on break. For
instance, actually we love Microsoft
because basically Microsoft is heavily
pushing cloud services right now,
and pretty much gearing businesses
to Watson applications, which I
think is the benefit of
all of all cloud providers.
They basically, I think a
lot of hosting will be
made in the cloud within
the next couple of years.
And this will allow for
a huge market with several.
One of the things that
I think is really significant
about what you guys are
trying to accomplish and how
you're kind of changing the
conversation is that the realization
that the cloud is more
than just scale. It's also
effortless deployment where deployment isn't
an event. It's not like,
like, like just as continuous
integration, got a lot of
us to stop thinking about
the build. Like we work
all day and now we'll
have the build that. And,
and now at the end
of the week, we're going
to we'll have the deployment
for free for, for you
and for systems like you,
the build is no longer
a problem. It's a nonissue.
And now theoretically, the deployment
is just as trivial of
an artifact. Yeah. Yeah. And
basically what this is allows
people to do is to
introduce smaller changes to their
running by publication, which usually
means more failures. If something
goes wrong, you don't do
down the bills, iteration lingo,
as you say, a week
or a month, you simply
just introduce the change whenever
you made it. And you'll
see how it goes. If
it's a problem, we'll roll
back a or you will
fix it immediately and push
again. Basically I think, I
think this is the essence
of it. What happens when
a deployment fails or a
build fails? What happens to
my application? Nothing happens a
running application. If your bill
fails, you'll be able to
see that in the same
space. As soon as soon
as people push the code,
we give people a link
where they can go and
see, how is this going?
Basically, they can just look
up on their application, patient
page on that popper and
see what's the status of
this. Basically tying it very
much to the commit ID.
So people will see corn
fields and it will apply
that application. Also, if people
ride the unit test, we
basically run those off. And
if any of those fields
we want to apply it,
people will be able to
go into the interface and
see exactly what's us resolve
the problem. If people always
have coats, that's verified and
it's working. Am I able
to, we have like the,
Oh crap button, like the,
Oh no, something's wrong. Maybe
it's functional. Maybe my tests
aren't on. Okay. I can
just go back and roll
back. What? I just did
the big, the big control
Z for the entire site.
Yeah. Well basically there's a,
there's a list. Continue the
last 10 bills for all
the bills. That's where all
the tests fast, you'll be
able to click a diploid
link and it will be
logged within a couple of
seconds. Wow. That's pretty slick.
Yeah. It's great. And people
really love this. This specifically,
this people love the most.
Actually. I'm not really sure
if that many people use
it, eh, but, but, but
I think people like the
convenience or just the safety
that they know that's all
right. I push something. It
went wrong. Well, I can
always roll back within seconds.
That's really interesting because when
I think about things like
testing and I was someone
emailed me recently and said,
why should I bother writing
tests? You know, I'm just
a one person shop. I
don't want to waste time
typing these tests up. I
thought about all the different
reasons. One would argue why
you should do tests. And
I ended up saying that
it's not about the test
or having a number of
tests. It's about the confidence
that the tests give you
to make changes. Totally agree.
Totally agree. Yeah. Right. And
that idea that, that I'm
not afraid of my application
anymore. That's so fundamental. If
you are afraid of your
application, then either your code
is wrong, but more likely
your process is wrong. You
know, I've had that. I've
had that before where I've
got an application working well,
even like my blog, my
blog runs on a dotnet
to application that's, you know,
seven years old. And recently
I was a little afraid.
I didn't want to change
it, you know, because I
didn't want to, I didn't
want to wake the sleeping
lion, but I've got a
lot of tests and I've
got it in source code.
And I know which one
I deployed recently and I
made a pretty fundamental change
and nobody noticed. And that,
that sense of confidence in
your own application is, is
provided to you by tests.
And now we're seeing platforms
extend that sense of, of
confidence with, with deployment where
I can deploy something and
then say, Oh no. And
undo it all the way
back. Like you said, 10,
10 different builds. Yeah. Yeah.
And then basically, yeah, I
think you're totally right about
the reason why I should
write this. Basically. It's the
confidence in it. And basically,
basically, what, what this also
gives you. Actually, I found
myself a couple of times
because I probably was running
on, on our own platform.
I find myself pushing a
code to our, to our
server. I didn't run this
test locally or I failed.
Or even, even sometimes I
use a Mac, I just
changed something in a text
editor and committed it and
pushed it and all that,
all the bill failed. This
is really a it's really,
it really gives you another
kind of flexibility. It makes
you more agile because you
can trust your own code.
You know, how you intended
that this work and you
made sure that it would
always work like that. Right.
I mean, potentially this could
be a, an excuse to
be sloppy and make dangerous
changes. But just like you
said, let's say that, you
know, we, we have all
grabbed a file from FTP,
opened it in notepad, made
a code change and deployed
it to production at some
point in our lives. You
know, we're not proud of
it, but it's happened. But
if you have the right
processes in place, then you
can at least keep yourself
from losing your job. Exactly,
exactly. And they basically I've
personally, I have never found
that writing system on my
projects is a waste of
time. I've also always found
that within a month or
two, after creating a project,
if I didn't write this,
it would really, really slow
me down because I was
so worried about if the
application would work as expected
and, and I didn't respect
her enough, basically what test
gives you is the competence
competency reflects her everything. So
it's, it's always nice. It
just allows you to write
better code. I think. So
how many years do you
think until most holsters offer
these kinds of services and
what do you thinks beyond
this? Well, first of all,
I think, I think the
first step would be that
although provide us rain. People's
UNICEF,  even Heroku as
well. I, I think for,
for, for us, it's, it's
connecting people with even more
services whenever, whatever database locking
mechanism, I think, I think
our primary focus right now,
what it comes down, we'll
take our market. I guess
we basically have to team
up convincing people to use
the cloud. Yeah, it definitely
seems like the, the $5
holsters can't can't survive, but
it'll be interesting to see
if the low end goes
away. And what I would
think of as being the
high end in the sense
of not, not that our
Harbor would be expensive at
high end in that currently
the, the knowledge one requires
to get involved is, is
nontrivial, you know, need to
have an understanding of, of
getting source control. And so,
you know, some basic stuff,
I don't think that you'd
have a lot of 12
year olds deploying to power,
unless maybe you do Well.
I think obviously a lot
of users just to, just
to get on our platform,
but most people aren't even
used to using a wishing
control system. And actually I'm
quite happy if a version
control system in order to
use our platform not using
it. But then again, obviously
we want to provide people
with as much convenience as
possible while still somewhat feasible.
But yeah, definitely right now
people have to have a
certain degree of, can I
do this, kind of do
that. Basically we didn't really,
we haven't documented that much.
We have a small, basic
information. We really encourage people
to explore it because this
is also the way that
we are listening to. Very
cool. Well, I wish you
all the best and I
appreciate you taking the time
to come on the show
and explain to us how
things are changing in the
cloud. We'll put links to
app harbor.com and information about
how their, their stuff works
as well as other clouds
up on Hanselman's dot com.
Thanks so much for joining
us. This has been another
episode. We'll see you again
next week.